thanks so much gray area I'm really
thrilled to be here I just say I'm a
little nervous is the first time I'm
giving this talk this is like a brand
new talk so maybe I'll break the ice by
sharing a personal experience I've had
with online sex who here has been to a
sex cam site before okay Oh is a couple
people willing to admit it that's great
so sex cam sex chat sites are
collections of people who broadcast
themselves via web cams and accept money
for various sexual performances and it's
an amazing place because it caters to
all kinds of people it's this incredible
world where whatever it is that you want
it's there and I'm really taken by by
how on it is honest it is it's this kind
of rebutia sexuality are completely
framed by the broadcaster you can find
what you like something for everyone and
if you don't like it just move on one
day I noticed this common image this
thing okay okay I noticed this this
common image where you know a
performer's kind of got the cam rolling
and they're just waiting for someone to
tip them and my my good friend and
sometimes collaborator Addie wagenknecht
and I were looking at these online world
and we said where have we seen this
before
Oh
and then we asked people to do this for
about a month
[Music]
so the project is called webcam Venus
and it's you know about notions of
beauty and social and cultural context
for beauty and it was this kind of small
question we had about relating certain
kinds of images that seem to be
physically similar and we just thought
it was really intriguing to paint inside
this weird zone of appropriateness right
the difference between the nude and
naked for example we should be okay with
this right where both are covered for
certain sensibilities or this where
they're just both uncovered because
their similarity and yet it feels like
most people would do it like this they
would cover one because they would label
one as inappropriate on the other one is
perfectly fine basically the project was
challenging the often used phrase I know
it when I see it which was coined by a
Supreme Court justice literally asking
themselves well what is hardcore
pornography and so it seems like context
seems to be the main factor of whether
or not something is art or porn so for
example architectural you could say the
art museum is very different than the
porno theater or a magazine all right so
you have the big museum and then the
good old-fashioned porno theater the
architecture helps define the status of
the content it contextualizes the media
held inside but in the Internet age
something strange happens because the
sex camp site and the museum site are
equally accessible they both basically
in the same footprint and weirder still
is what you consider kind of the warning
section so when you go to one of these
sex campsites the first thing pops up is
a warning you are you of age is all the
legal ramifications but the museum site
doesn't have that no matter how explicit
the artwork might be so we thought
putting these two images from two
different sources wasn't that odd it
just kind of felt obvious to kind of
make that that contextual comparison but
then some of the reactions afterwards
were really strange and odd unto
themselves so for example was really big
success in Europe it was exhibited a lot
it was in wide circulation mainstream
newspapers like new girl Fiona
France a lot of Buchan Italy and we had
interviews and we recovered on kanopolis
television it's really big in France you
know The Libertines and all that but
outside art blogs and niche interest
mainstream media in the u.s. didn't
really pick it up and I guess I
shouldn't be too surprising so this is
how the EU on the left and the US on the
right covered the same story of a Swiss
government worker who was sacked for
tweeting sexual selfies at work and you
can see the priorities are clearly
different and the context of this world
in which the same content of its
explained in different places makes for
a very odd contextual relationship and
then you take for example so animal New
York are a kind of culture blog in New
York talked about our piece but then
they posted their article on Facebook
and they were kicked out of their
Facebook account for a few days because
essentially there was this kind of like
contextual contamination or what i would
call cross contextual confusion right
facebook's rules or algorithm isn't
nuanced enough to understand the context
of the work it just sees nipples and
then we had it that we we had
commissioned paintings of the sex
performers in painted poses for a show
in New York for fat lab and when the
verge wrote about it this was one image
among many of the images of the stuff in
the work the comments section below is
this rant about warning about getting
upset at the writer for not putting an
NSFW warning before the article because
people are looking at this at work and
how dare they show nude images and even
though the commenters where again well
it's an art piece it's a painting and
why are you looking at this at work and
it was a really kind of odd comment
section the way most comments sections
go and then we showed the piece of
internet week New York and Google was
kind of in the same Hall and
surreptitiously asked internet we kind
of put up a curtain and block this this
inappropriate work and they even put up
this sign you know it's like we support
free speech however
and then we modified it by instead of
saying not appropriate for children
prudes because we were just kind of
frustrated with that but there's this
weird thing where it's like what do you
learn from project like this a project
that is equally tweeted by moma design
curator Paola Antonelli and a popular
erotica tweet Twitter account there's
clearly something going on in this with
this kind of multiple context and I've
been thinking about this image a lot
recently I took this photograph not too
long ago now these are two people who
don't know each other their postures
based on their mutual use of the same
technology are almost identical it's
really like it's very much a photo
button now you can date it based on the
tech you can say oh it's iphone 6 or
whatever it is um but the technology's
ubiquity also means you can't use it to
define where this photo is taken is it
New York Paris Tokyo you know I phones a
worldwide and so the white headphones
tell you well that that could be
anywhere and despite the shared posture
what different contextual arenas are
they accessing on their phones they may
not even be the same language and we're
so used to people from different
cultures coexisting in cities everywhere
in the world it's not that weird to have
two people who don't look alike sitting
next to each other doing something so
contextual markers have become somewhat
confusing or at least really quite rich
so I'm calling this talk within the
context of all contexts it's a slightly
cumbersome title the title acknowledges
70s and 80s media thoughts by writers
such as George crowd Neil postman
gerrymander and others but also debates
and resist them a little bit in the post
Internet age you can ask me about all of
that afterwards but the talk is also
potentially jumbled set of observations
and half thoughts about making in my
research art design practice in this the
second decade of the 21st century it
meanders a bit and it might be a little
conclusive but that's okay we'll just
keep going so let's start with the
internet and and it's framing devices so
we have the browser we have the app
portable device whatever it is the
internet is the centralizing experience
of our
age it is both central to all of our
experiences and it actively centralizes
all of our experiences into one vast
space it's a proscenium it's a portal to
everywhere it's about the singular
context right things that are online and
simultaneously the path the different
contexts communication with others
learning information or watching media
content etc etc and I mean you're going
to have endless content frame by the
browser just all in one place ready for
comparison and it also means at the
hierarchies get shuffled because
Microsoft mcdonnell's the US government
all had the same pixel footprint than my
personal what website does there's a
strange equivalence there that promotes
a kind of comparison between different
things that didn't normally occupy the
same space now when played out in our
personal lives we get multiple
equivalent views of ourselves so this is
me and my little used instagram account
and facebook and twitter in real life we
adjust our behavior for the context
right you're different at work when you
are at the bar but online there's a real
possibility that your boss sees you at
the bar through your pictures that you
post on facebook now sociologists call
this context collapse that is that all
the typical context for our multiple
sides of our personality kind of
collapse into one vast context here's a
project by dutch artist reporter called
tinder in and what he does is he finds
people on tinder and then finds their
LinkedIn profile and makes prince side
by side of the men I'll let you decide
which one is which now now with contacts
collapse you know sociologist makes it
sound so terrible is like oh no we're
all collapsing into one vast context but
I don't I don't think see that way I see
it as a rich possibility to be aware of
all the possible context for your life
and your work so for example back to
webcam Venus here it is installed in a
gallery it could be almost anywhere this
happens to be a solo show I had in
Europe a couple years ago and that's not
that's night at the marker of success
but it really kind of lives here it's
online it's a vimeo link and that's
really kind of where it lives
it's the home context but it's just one
of many possible contexts it also gets
embedded wherever it wants to be people
can embed it and share new context and
it's okay because the different contexts
don't kill the work it survives a
contextual translation just fine and is
even enriched by the multiple venues and
so sometimes really fascinated by making
work that is specifically made for
living on the web and you know just
heard about work about net art and
things that live on the web so in
working with sexcam spaces there was
also this other notice that that does a
lot of downtime so when Addie and I were
doing the kind of like looking for
performers for webcam Venus we noticed
that the camera doesn't turn off like
someone gets up to go to the bathroom go
get a drink no big deal they just let
the camera running and you're left with
is very odd look into someone's living
room bedroom bathroom sometimes kitchen
which is weird so it opened up a whole
other possibility so we we create this
project called BRB XOXO that's internet
speak for be right back kisses and hugs
and it's a live site and go to it now
and it broadcasts sexcam room cams but
only when the performer is not present
and so what happens is you you get these
weird moments you're like oh look
stripper pole interesting oh wait i have
that ikea cabinet too and its global so
you're just seeing what people look like
in their domestic spaces more recently
I've been really fascinated by because
I'm trained as an architect like what
would a city and a browser be like so I
take photos of architecture wherever I
go just a habit and so I made this
project called high-rise which is just a
series of gifts that load up and it
becomes this city that you can see and
you can scroll through and it's this
endless city of buildings growing higher
hires of the sky you can go to my
website and see how it's done but it's
all done from a single photograph and a
lot of Photoshop work but what's fun is
that because of the way the browser
interacts with content you can kind of
endlessly scroll and you can also zoom
out and kind of see the city in all of
its various forms and just kind of let
it wash over you the way good cities do
and not as a browser you know the
framing power
portable devices is such a huge way in
which we kind of interact with the world
whether it's the window onto reality or
just a way to bring in content from
other places I also can tell that
they'll be certain about number of you
who will digest this talk later through
the photos you take up my slides because
you hold it up and then later you'll see
it again that's in your context for the
work so I stand up again without a wagon
act and Dan Moore we were asked by the
house for electronic kunst in Basel HEK
to compete for an installation proposal
for their blank facade of their new
building essentially they wanted art
here and we said sure but that isn't
here that's there our devices are where
what's here and so we proposed a
flexible changeable system of tiles on
the on the facade basically become
fiducial markers or red preference piles
and then a custom augmented reality app
so that when you point it at the markers
which can change however often they want
you get this artwork that would show up
it was about art that's here on your
phone there on the facade and then
everywhere because you're being
connected through networks and we called
it here there everywhere but we lost the
competition so it just stays as an idea
so despite univ the unifying context of
the internet contextual manipulation
framing stories platforms destinations
cultural social reach whatever you want
to call it I think consensual
manipulation is the currency of today
there are so many ways context of affect
our contemporary lives so let me show
you a few funny videos each revealing
different contextual oddities I think
comedy is really good the help books
kind of look at ourselves so in no
particular order start with the
comedians key and peele next this poor
girl
this gift went around recently it just
it's just it's speaks volume next James
ker AKA scorpion dagger and then Drake
Tommy all myself I face a color a lot
that is that your piece this is my piece
sorry what does I call it onlooker I
mean what is art if it's not being
observed so there you hear like 24 7
over
yeah hey that's part of the art project
now what our project what is personal
property you know how do we see that
good luck thank you it's certainly going
well so far yeah great so she just
grabbed my bag if you just stole my
purse what about your garden swing or
key weirdest thing was that he said oh
this is just an art project and art
project well I can understand that you
know your dad and I collaborated on an
art project what do you mean it was you
see and I rolled you're a good price for
these men that of course was Portlandia
with art project so so breaking it down
a bit you know the Scorpion dagger piece
which if you don't follow James kurz
amazing gifts then you're missing out is
this context of history now I spent a
lot of time researching art and
technology histories as a researcher
scholar I often reveal unknown histories
right that's part of our trade so for
example we can take the popularity of
cat gifts and I would say to you my
students or whomever well I can connect
that to lesser seen earlier in media
versions like Thomas Edison's earliest
cinematic experiments using New Jersey
boardwalk circus performers all right so
his earliest cinema is testing things
out a little cats cats media cats
everywhere 1894 by the way and and so
some of the work that I do is
straight-up research into history so
drawing machine is on or gives a site
that's live now it's still being built
kind of added to but it's this pure
historical research of media archaeology
it's uncovering the history of drawing
machines for the last 500 years so it's
a place where okay you've got an Arduino
and a sharpie you want to make a drawing
machine you can come to drawing machine
org and see a bunch of different types
of drawing machines and kind of learn
some of this prehistory and you know
with webcam Venus making these direct
allusions to to history with
side-by-side comparison you know we're
not alone there's something going on in
the air so romina recia photographer
these kind of slightly ironic portraits
to look from one era but clearly are
from now or the fabulous nina
katchadourian
with her lavatory self-portraits in the
Flemish style taken in on long-haul
flights in the bathrooms of airplanes
let that sink in yeah or you know add
advertising where you have the netflix
ad campaign for season two of daredevil
borrows very directly from Caravaggio in
some not so subtle ways or for fashion
and advertising so Michael Thompson
shooting Julianne Moore as odalisque for
Vanity Fair and then there's also these
weird moments where it's not a
historical image but people start going
wait that looks like a historical image
this looks like a painting something
bruegel ish or Paolo Uccello battles I
don't know this is this past New Year's
in Manchester in the UK and people
spread this around like oh look it looks
like a Renaissance painting or you have
this Reuters photo of a fight at the
Ukrainian Parliament which people were
like wait a minute this kind of looks
like painting and it's true and I you
know I'm an art professor and I can't
exactly explain why it just does have
that feeling and then it also works
backwards so history of art that can
look like contemporary work if reframed
using you know contemporary media right
so death holding at our glass is now
taking a selfie and sometimes this
comparison is really really powerful you
have Cindy Sherman kind of dressing up
with for her self portraits as
historical art to reframe the the role
gender in kind of how we look at our
history or Kehinde Wiley who does these
fantastic large painted portraits of
african-american men but in these poses
like famous paintings so you have a you
know a guy from Brooklyn but now he's
Napoleon in WX painting and you know
other projects at done using history so
again with drawing machines you have
Albrecht Durer who made these amazing
woodcut prints of 16th century tools
that would help someone draw I was
fascinated by kind of bringing in
digital computation into that wondering
what would a machine draw if it could
draw
its own history so this project called
machine drawing drawing machines where I
programmed with CNC machine to draw
historical drawing machines and so it's
a CNC router it made an addition of 12
different drawing machines from kind of
Renaissance to the present and it made
them I kind of as like fine art prints
and I suppose you know a lot of this
kind of makes sense like we would tap
into history that's perfectly fine but
we are in a comparison culture there's
so much comparison going on like the
amazing Karen Zack which totally blew up
the internet recently with these
comparisons there's something really
powerful about comparing this to that
and the comparison culture works well
because we have the technology to share
and to browse everybody stuff you know
these things go viral pretty easily and
if you think about just the odds of it
you're like well what are the odds but
actually quite good because we all share
our images we all have cameras it's
inevitable that someone wearing that
outfit is going to be standing next to
someone with that phone and someone's
going to snap and share it and so it
goes viral because we love these these
amazing comparisons and by the way we're
really good at scoring comparisons to
used to be you're an actress you wear
your nice outfit everyone's like you
look great in that outfit but but now
everyone's like oh no you wore it the
same dress that so it's a war that thing
and now we can score and you scored 73
percent right okay so context of
language so key and Peele in that kind
of amazing pithy little sketch there
performed what's called code switching
which is the way in which we can
literally speak differently to
culturally associate with others in this
case became more street or the way one
adopts more professional jargon at work
and this is something we're all have to
get used to if you're you're my age
you've got to kind of catch up and look
up like what I don't know what that
acronym means so what is that one okay i
know everyone knows WTF but TI l took me
a while to kind of figure out you know
when my friends would be upset in SML
i'll be like what is that oh got it yeah
you know it's fine it's I'm catching up
and we're all going to have to deal with
that
essentially these are there these are
examples of the Shibboleth which is a
code word or phrase that adheres you to
or separates you from a group so for
example how would you say this word yeah
most of you say it orange see I was born
and raised in New York City and as much
as I've done as much force as I've done
to eliminate my accent I still say
orange and the Shibboleth is if I'm
among some Bay Area people and I say
orange they'll look at me and say where
are you from that doesn't sound right
but if I was with another New Yorker
they'd be like oh hey New Yorkers nice
and this is something that happens in
every language every culture you know
this is kind of a great example some of
you say so does some of you say pop some
of you say coke few people say soft
drink this is just what happens these
are the little shibboleths that kind of
give us a kind of nuanced understanding
of another person's background heritage
cultural associations cetera now I think
that the best superpower would be that's
truly powerful would be to be able to
speak every language in the world I mean
imagine the ability to navigate all the
contextual nuances of all languages
right that would be true power you can
have flight and the visibility and super
strength if you want it but that's
that's the power I want so I speak
English I speak a little Italian and I
speak some Spanish but when I travel I
end up having to learn one phrase which
is I do not speak your language in your
language because it at least gives me
that one moment slight drawback if you
practice it really well enough someone
will come up to you and French and say
something in French and you realize
you're gonna pop off on say and they
look at you funny because you said it
well then they ask you again and you're
like sorry I don't speak French and then
they will run anyway but if if you don't
think that language is power I give you
this example introduce founder of
facebook maka
I busy why Goodwin and knocked out
number one yeah should you say you're
going that's power the ability for Mark
Zuckerberg to not only know that china
is his toughest market to now be able to
go over win them over in their language
is proof that there's going to be a
Chinese Facebook version anyway and by
the way I'm learning Mandarin now and I
have all props too so that work for
being able to do that but okay so but
the link language isn't just limited to
linguistics either there's a visual
language that we all become accustomed
to so for example what James Bridal
calls the new aesthetic it's the visual
language of technology that appears in
the real world and so we see this when
we see like pixilation in real life
either as low res images or as minecraft
cosplay or these odd things where you
want to bring things to life from the
digital world no matter how silly like
there's YouTube makeup tutorials for the
puking rainbow filter on snapchat but
also there's there's glitches and so
glitch art which is a very digital thing
and kind of invented in the digital
world majid manages sometimes to creep
out into the real world like this these
amazing furniture pieces by ferruccio
love Yanni or ghosts arabic and typhoons
sorry a and making these these these
stickers that they just kind of apply
around town and if you know Photoshop
language you know that this checkerboard
background means they're erasing this
which is really i mean so subtle but
really brilliant so sometimes i'm
fascinated with the kind of glitching
and the the language of what happens
when a specific tool does certain things
so for example the panorama app if you
do this right and if you don't use it
kind of correctly you can end up with
some really surprising things it's it's
as we
performance thing where you're kind of
navigating the technology because it
doesn't want to do this you do it too
far it'll break it won't actually take
the image if you do it just far enough
you can start to paint with it and so
you get these really beautiful things
and this is you know hashtag no filter
this is straight out of my my iphone
sometimes multiple passes of something
or kind of combination of several of
these images together and remember that
competition for HEK and Basel that we
lost well the winner was median group at
bit Nick who they they physically
glitched the facade of the museum so
they they kind of rebuilt the parts to
be blank but as though it was kind of
glitched okay we are a lot of VR talk
today which is kind of good now it's
really easy to laugh at virtual reality
you know it seems narcissistic and
isolating and weird for all the social
screeches we are I I do love vr I think
it's an amazing tech but it's the
problem I have with it or the
fascination how is not that it's stupid
it's that VR is allergic to other
realities into other contexts in virtual
reality really is reality deprivation
for it to work you have to exclude real
reality and include in this talk I think
because people kind of talk about it but
it's a it's a weird example in this
world in which contexts are constantly
bleeding into each other where this is
one context that tries to be absolute
and closed off it's not endless context
bleeding into each other but which I
find it kind of strange because it goes
against if you want to talk about prior
art thousands of years a really clever
and gorgeous overlaps of reality and
virtue ality right so in the early 1500s
an example like Rafael's stuns those as
hundred to the painting school of athens
you know this is an image you may have
seen in our history class but its
context is really this this is these are
the Vatican apartments and so it's this
kind of amazing perspective that's
sitting there in a space so you're
interacting with it in a really rich way
and in my usual lecture about the long
history of virtuality I show this image
a real tree completed by its virtual
self
you know virtual media and reality they
do want to blend in really surprising
ways and there's a kind of artistry in
that blend which I'm like VR as amazing
as it is excludes one reality in favor
of another so one way that I I tend to
play with that is is through my love of
optical illusions and so a few years ago
I was asked to contribute to a show at
the mattress factory Museum in
Pittsburgh and I was given this like
late night late 19th century room that
only had this one door and these three
windows but the weird thing is the whole
room was just painted white so all the
moldings there was no detail other than
just everything his wife so what would
happen if I was able to make an image of
another window because there's only one
door you'd only see it from one point of
view and so here it is I blocked out one
window so the one on the right is is the
real window that I pinstriped and then
the one on the left is painted on the
wall but done so with an optical
illusion called anamorphosis so that it
looks flat in one direction but as you
move through the room you start to see
it kind of bending and twisting in space
effectively it's this disillusion that
works from one vantage point and this is
a linear an amorphous or something
that's been around for 500 years and
there's other types where you can have
things like a cylindrical mirror and you
can see these beautiful illusions that
are revealed so i made this skull and
because there's so many chrome pipes
around nowadays you can put it almost
anywhere and surprise people with this
little virtual image of a skull which is
a memento mori or that is this a
reminder of death so there you are
staying at the urinal you remind that
you're going to die and I place it
around town you know I made a hundred of
them and kind of place them all over
town in surprising places you know most
frightening Lee in hospitals yeah I know
or another example of an optical
illusion I made recently made this thing
and I stuck it to a selfie stick and as
you walk around you've got this image
that corrects itself only for the camera
on the on your phone and so you're
walking around with this kind of like
weird memento mori but I also kind of
got a little lighter harder than I made
a version with emoji for each one so
these are all kind of skewed image
that work only from the vantage point of
a camera okay so Drake and the remix
it's his own context that is actually
really a rich history right we think of
remix in art we think of Warhol we think
of the kind of appropriation art
something from somewhere else you know
these are recontextualization zits
Warhol the pop artists are taking
something from one venue understood as
low art or popular art and putting it
into high art and that reach
centralization is what makes it hard it
has a much longer history 1912 Picasso
made a collage still life with chair
caning and most interestingly it's
actually not chair caning it's a
magazine cutout image of chair caning
that he puts inside of his composition
or really projects that problematize
appropriation so Robert Rauschenberg
taking a being given an Willem de
Kooning drawing by de Kooning he just
erases it and so now you have this
erased de Kooning and so whose work is
it right and probably the most brazen
appropriator is sherrie levine who in
the 70s and 80s on the left is Walker
Evans original photo from 1936 and then
she photographed the photo out of a book
and printed it identically to the
original and that's herpes alright so
this is a really brazen appropriation
and what do you what do you to make of
that it's really difficult and I I too
love to kinda grab things from older
times and make them new again so one
example is back to Albrecht Durer these
these images he made for the four books
on human proportion from 1528 he has
this incredible like just focus of
attention to make slightly different
variations in proportions to talk about
how proportions can be drawn out so here
each of these heads fits in a square but
how you where you move the eye line or
the nose line you get too surprising
differences so I took this into software
and started to blend between them and
and make this sculpture out of 3d
printed material on a rotating spindle
that blends between all the different
versions of odor and when you cast the
light across the edge it projects a
shadow that shows not on
ders six images but also a new set of
potentially infinite variations in
between that I would imagine he would
love to have done if he had a computer
and every so often City kind of lines up
if you freeze the thing then you can
trace it wherever you want another
version of this kind of profile work I
do I also use with eadweard muybridge
original photos of the running horse
which was done actually not too far from
here the original 12 images are kind of
the precursor to cinema everyone kind of
recognizes the flipbook style of this
but I was really fascinated with it
because again you can kind of draw in
between them new frames that didn't
exist before and if you actually render
this series of frames solid and you kind
of make a projection plane through it
like like you're kind of cutting through
butter you can see that there's this
whole new world of 12 frames becomes
almost a kind of high resolution
animation that wasn't there before and
then at high speed yeah what those
fascinating at the time was this is 2007
so 3d printing was kind of just becoming
available to universities and so I
worked with a couple guys to figure out
a way to 3d print the horse and then
cast it in bronze so is the kind of lost
wax investment casting which is
thousands of years old but using kind of
start to prince2 to cast this into it
into a sculpture so it's kind of
thousands year old technology mixed with
new technology printing kind of deriving
a new version of 19th century technology
I also like to kind of grab things that
interest me and make short projects so
this is a kind of a gift version of
Claude Lucia's 1976 film rendezvous when
she races his Ferrari hundreds of miles
an hour through the streets of Paris and
one on one continuous take and you know
just kind of playing with images and
just video and reimagining these spaces
there's also a sound component to this
and I'm that's too loud with the sound
of a Ferrari phase-shifting in and out
that you can watch that on my site what
we are thinking at really strange though
nowadays especially so this is Richard
Prince famous appropriation artist
he made this in 2014-2015 basically did
was he made comments on Instagram posts
and then screenshot them and printed
them inkjet on canvas and called them
portraits now he calls it appropriation
some people got upset calling it theft
or worse maybe lazy but it gets really
weird and it's tough for me kind of to
to defend Richard Prince because he's
such a dick but but there's a really
fascinating back sir if you look at how
appropriated a lot of this stuff is so
for example the shot in the middle there
is actually from Laurie Simmons who is a
photographer and so she did this this
series we're on the left this is a photo
that she made as part of an art piece
then she instagrammed a close-up of that
to show what the project really is about
which is makeup artist painting eyes on
closed eyelids right see so she wanted
the close-up so she reframed the
original photo for an Instagram post for
which Richard Prince sent comments on
and then reprints into his piece but
Laurie Simmons already had a show of the
work so there's a show out there that
was first and then the Instagram then
something else right so you have theirs
Laurie Simmons original photograph which
she had in a show so there's a different
context for it and then she can
Instagram it and then Richard Prince
Instagram that turned that into an image
that then went into a show and then we
all found out about it on the web a lot
of layers for one image and then it gets
even odd when you take for example the
alt alt pin up a collective suicide
girls they had three of their images
taken by Richard Prince for the show and
they got a little pissed because he was
selling them for ninety thousand dollars
so they said okay fine you can have
Richard prints for ninety thousand or
will sell you are the exact same
Instagram pic from our feed will print
it inkjet on canvas same exact size you
could buy for $90 and so they're kind of
trying to reappropriation for them and
good for them except they should have
foreseen what happened next
which is you can go on ebay and buy the
suicide girls version of the prints for
much more than the ninety dollars so now
there's a secondary market for that
reappropriation appropriation art
essentially like so there's like this
thing right there's an image there's an
idea and then you'd like people bracket
around to make another appropriated
context and then someone tries to kind
of go around it and make their version
of it but like everyone's trying to kind
of like basically kind of over bracket
everyone else it's kind of like in wars
it's like you're trying to outflank your
enemy right you're trying to get around
them to control which is fine i guess
except that you know in world war one
that turned into trench war that lasted
four years in a stalemate so maybe we
should be a little careful with a lot of
the corporation but anyway alright so
Portlandia and the context of story you
know art is what you say about it i
think it's the kind of message that that
that the skit brings forth it's also
maybe what you know about it or heard
about it right oh I heard she was
tripping on acid when she made that or I
heard he was a grade a misogynist and it
changes the way that the work can be
perceived the meaning is fluid because
context can easily shift and that means
that the definition of authenticity
sometimes at stake and so back to
suicide girls they're both authentic
pieces of art but they get that asterisk
because Richard Prince and suicide girl
the both law thick but authentically
appropriated and authentic within the
context they establish maybe and then
there's like people like Zilla venden
born in 2013 she went on a five-week
trip to Southeast Asia keeping her
friends and family updated with social
media posts she made skype calls and
emails and all that the only thing is
that she never left her Amsterdam
apartment it was all faked right so she
has all the social media posts and kind
of creates this whole world very
cleverly kind of creating staged
photoshop so here the swimming pool in
her apartment complex gets photoshopped
with tropical fish to show it off she
even created backdrops for her skype
calls for her friends but it's okay
because she said it's an art project
right and she says in her words the
ultimate goal was to prove how easy it
is to distort reality everybody knows
that the pictures of models are
manipulated but we often overlook the
fact that we
relate the reality also in our own lives
and she's very savvy about this because
even on her own website she kind of
talks about the different realities that
there are right so the vacation market a
reality the real place the presented
thing that we do in social media and
then the fake one that we can kind of
construct on our own so for example
here's one of the my most favorite
favorite authentic pieces that I own
actually have had one right here right I
brought it with me so precious to me
these are not sunflower seeds these are
porcelain sunflower seeds and you may
recognize some of these because they
were made by AI weiwei for the tate
turbine hall in london watches they're
not made by him he got porcelain workers
in China to work for many years to make
millions and millions of these sunflower
seeds for this art exhibit and it talks
a lot about you know authenticity of
creation manufacturing in China labor
and all that kind of stuff except I
didn't get these from the Tate I didn't
go to London for it I bought online eBay
they're not counterfeit they're actually
porcelain sunflower seeds made by the
same factories that AI weiwei did but
they just kept making them so that you
could buy them by the bag and so they're
same hand same place the difference is
provenance which is kind of fluid into
itself there were commissioned by
someone to sell and not the person who
called it art now what's weird is that
it's not black market exactly because
it's not stolen it's not fence material
it's not even knock-offs it's not even
Shan Zhai which is the Chinese word for
kind of low-grade knockoffs it's just it
just is what it is it's something that
to me kind of talks about this
authenticity issue and probably the most
famous moment in Modern Art that kind of
talks a lot about this is marcel
duchamp's fountain which is a urinal
turned on its side signed our mud and
included in an art show that by the way
he was actually on the on the committee
for the reason has changed art is
because it's the first time that someone
said this is art because I say it's art
the artist says are therefore it should
qualify as art why not
but they're kind of an odd authenticity
question about this piece as well so
when sfmoma reopens you might be able to
go and see it here it is problem is the
original was lost and so do shop was
commissioned to make replicas of the
original one and so there are at least
17 out there in the world you know one
of the take one in SF moment you